README.md, before:

# ouch-button-web-app

A project comprising of a physical button and web application that allows individuals who use a wheelchair to communicate when they are experiencing pain.

### Built with

- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
- [ExpressJS](https://expressjs.com/)
- [ReactJS](https://react.dev/)
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en)

## Getting Started

You can configure and run the project locally by following the steps below.

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
```
git clone https://github.com/mattsmith135/ouch-button-web-app.git
```
2. Setup frontend
```
cd app/client
npm install
```
3. Setup backend
```
cd ../backend
npm install
```

### Setup MongoDB Atlas and create .env file

1. Within the 'backend' folder, create a .env file that is similar to the .env.example file

1. Sign into [MongoDB Atlas](https://account.mongodb.com/account/login?nds=true). Login credentials are listed on the Google Drive in a file titled 'Creds'

2. Select the 'Connect' button listed on the database cluster

3. Under the 'Connect to your application' heading, select 'Drivers'

4. Copy the connection string (ie. mongodb+srv//...) and paste it in the .env file next to 'ATLAS_URI'

### Start Backend

```
cd app/backend
nodemon start
```

### Start Frontend

```
cd app/client
npm start
```

Commit message:

Sass partial-setup, README.md update and folder restructure
Partially setup Sass and create 'sass' folder structure.
Updated README.md to include extra MongoDB Atlas setup step.
Rearranged folder structure

SASS partial-setup:
- installation of Sass
- established Sass folder structure as per https://sass-guidelin.es/#architecture
- added global colors in '_variables.scss' as specified by Scope

Updated README.md
- in previous commits I forgot to add that each dev will need to add their IP address to the IP access list in MongoDB Atlas. README.md updated accordingly.

Rearranged folder structure:
- raised .gitignore to highest-level-directory
- reinstalled 'react-router-dom' and 'bootstrap' in 'client' directory

README.md, after:

# ouch-button-web-app

A project comprising of a physical button and web application that allows individuals who use a wheelchair to communicate when they are experiencing pain.

### Built with

- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
- [ExpressJS](https://expressjs.com/)
- [ReactJS](https://react.dev/)
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en)

## Getting Started

You can configure and run the project locally by following the steps below.

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
```
git clone https://github.com/mattsmith135/ouch-button-web-app.git
```
2. Setup frontend
```
cd app/client
npm install
```
3. Setup backend
```
cd ../backend
npm install
```

### Setup MongoDB Atlas and create .env file

1. Within the 'backend' folder, create a .env file that is similar to the .env.example file

1. Sign into [MongoDB Atlas](https://account.mongodb.com/account/login?nds=true). Login credentials are listed on the Google Drive in a file titled 'Creds'

2. Select the 'Connect' button listed on the database cluster

3. Under the 'Connect to your application' heading, select 'Drivers'

4. Copy the connection string (ie. mongodb+srv//...) and paste it in the .env file next to 'ATLAS_URI'

5. Navigate to the 'Network Access' option under the 'Security' heading in the sidenav

6. Select the 'Add IP Address button'

7. In the 'Access List Entry' field, enter your IP address. To find your IP address ask Google 'What's my IP' 

8. In the 'Comment' field, type 'Dev IP Address - `<yourname>`' (ie. Dev IP Address - Adam Baker)

### Start Backend

```
cd app/backend
nodemon start
```

### Start Frontend

```
cd app/client
npm start
```
